---
layout: post
title: 'Nerdy Adventures in America: EECI2010 US'
category: personal
alias: blog/2010/05/eeci2010-us/
excerpt: 'After months of waiting the time is finally here for EECI2010 US: the ExpressionEngine
  &amp; CodeIgniter Conference of 2010, held in San Fransisco. It''s been 5 months
  since the last EECI over in Leiden, Holland but  it already feels like too long. '
date: '2010-05-26 15:15:00'
comments: true
disqus_identifier: eeci2010-us
---

After months of waiting the time is finally here for EECI2010 US: The ExpressionEngine & CodeIgniter Conference of 2010, held in San Fransisco. It's been 5 months since the last EECI over in Leiden, Holland but it already feels like too long.

Sadly unlike Leiden, Whooz Media - the event organizers - aren't sending me over as a speaker. While I wouldn't mind being flown half way across the world for my opinions, the down side to there is they only cover your hotel and plane for the duration of the event. Organizing this myself means I can spend a little more time over the pond checking out SF and even slip in a trip to Canada.

Canada is a place I have always wanted to visit and now I am over that way it's actually pretty cheap. It gives me a chance to hike, kayak and climb surrounded by some of the nicest scenery known to man. I'll also take the chance to see [@ThatLeeGuy](http://twitter.com/thatleeguy) who will be putting me up for a few nights, [shriker](http://twitter.com/shriker)

Anyway, I am really looking forward to seeing some familiar CodeIgniter faces from EECI2009 and hopefully lots of new faces too. This time I will be making much more of an effort to mingle with the ExpressionEngine crowd (and apologize to a few for last year...) as I plan to be breaking into that community with a few great add-ons over the next few months. The first of these modules will be demoed to anyone interested at EECI2010.

_"Party on, Wayne!"_
